Add initial access monitoring rules docs (#41012)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/access-controls/access-request-plugins/access-monitoring-rules.mdx

Reviewer: You should also update the config.js to include this page in the table of contents on the left. Right now it will not appear anywhere. I would put it under [Access Requests](https://goteleport.com/docs/access-controls/access-requests/).

---

> title: Routing Access Requests to Access Plugins

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Routing Access Request notifications
```

> description: How to set up Teleport's Access Monitoring Rules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to set up Teleport's Access Monitoring Rules to route Access Request notifications
```

based on what roles or resources are being accessed, or based on what user
is making the request.

Currently only the Slack access plugin is supported.

## Prerequisites

- A managed Teleport Enterprise account.

- The Enterprise `tctl` admin tool and `tsh` client tool version >= (=teleport.version=).

  You can verify the tools you have installed by running the following commands:

  ```code
  $ tctl version
  # Teleport Enterprise v(=teleport.version=) go(=teleport.golang=)
  
  $ tsh version
  # Teleport v(=teleport.version=) go(=teleport.golang=)
  ```

  You can download these tools by following the appropriate [Installation 
  instructions](../../installation.mdx#linux) for your environment and Teleport edition.

- At least one of the Teleport Access Plugins that support using being set up.

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/2. Create an Access Monitoring Rule

You can define an access request notification rule in two ways:
- Using the web UI dialog.
- Creating a YAML resource file containing the definition of a rule.

### Create an Access Monioting Rule via the web UI

To create an Access Monitoring Rule via the web UI, first navigate to

> the Access Request page and click on `View Notification Routing Rules`.

Reviewer: Feels like this section is unfinished?

> ### Create an Access Monitoring Rule via TCTL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create an Access Monitoring Rule using YAML resource
```

---
title: Routing Access Request notifications
description: How to set up Teleport's Access Monitoring Rules to route Access Request notifications
---

> With Teleport's Access Monitoring Rules Access Request notifications

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With Teleport's Access Monitoring Rules, Access Request notifications
```

can be routed to plugins based on based on several conditions.

> For example, if you wish to notify different recipients e.g Slack channels,
> based on what roles or resources are being accessed, or based on what user
> is making the request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, you may wish to send notifications to different Slack channels
based on what roles or resources are being accessed, or based on what user
is making the request.
```

Currently only the Slack access plugin is supported.

## Prerequisites

> - A managed Teleport Enterprise account.

Reviewer 2: What is a managed account? Does this mean cloud?

Author: yes

> - The Enterprise `tctl` admin tool and `tsh` client tool version >= (=teleport.version=).

Reviewer 2: Note: as of v16, there is no such thing as an enterprise tctl admin tool. There's only one tctl.

  You can verify the tools you have installed by running the following commands:

  ```code
  $ tctl version
  # Teleport Enterprise v(=teleport.version=) go(=teleport.golang=)
  
  $ tsh version
  # Teleport v(=teleport.version=) go(=teleport.golang=)
  ```

  You can download these tools by following the appropriate [Installation 
  instructions](../../installation.mdx#linux) for your environment and Teleport edition.

- At least one of the Teleport Access Plugins that support using being set up.

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/2. Create an Access Monitoring Rule

You can define an Access Request notification rule in two ways:

> - Using the web UI dialog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Using the Web UI dialog.
```

Looks like "Web UI" is more consistently used in our docs.

```

teleport/docs on master [!] ➜ ag --files-with-matches 'web UI' | wc -l
      30

teleport/docs on master [!] ➜ ag --files-with-matches 'Web UI' | wc -l
      99
```

### Create an Access Monioting Rule via the web UI

To create an Access Monitoring Rule via the web UI, first navigate to
the Access Request page and click on `View Notification Routing Rules`.

![View Notification Routing Rules](../../../img/enterprise/plugins/access_monitoring_rules/view_routing_rules.png)

Then click `Create Notification Rule`.

![Create AMR](../../../img/enterprise/plugins/access_monitoring_rules/access_monitoring_rule_ui.png)

If a plugin that supports Access Monitoring Rule based routing is not enrolled
the UI will prompt you to enroll one.

### Create an Access Monitoring Rule using YAML resource

Here is an example Access Monitoring Rule. This rule will notify `your_slack_channel`
via the Slack plugin if an Access Request containing the role `your_role_name` is
made.

```yaml
kind: access_monitoring_rule
version: v1
metadata:
  name: your-plugin-name
spec:
  subjects: ['access_request']
  condition: 'access_request.spec.roles.contains("your_role_name")'
  notification:
    name: 'slack'
    recipients: ['your_slack_channel']
```

Above is an example of an Access Monitoring Rule that routes incoming Access Requests

> that are requesting the role `your_role_name` to the slack channel `your_slack_channel`.

Reviewer 2: You've already said exactly his in the previous paragraph.

Author: I'll remove it here and leave the one above

> The above routing rule can be created using `tctl create your-file-name.yaml`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above routing rule can be created using `tctl create -f your-file-name.yaml`
```

from the command line.

Multiple recipients can be specified in an Access Monitoring Rule.
The condition field of the rule is set to a predicate expression defining the conditions
under which you wish the rule to apply.

Fields of the Access Request that are currently supported are
| Field | Description |
| --- | --- |
| access_request.spec.roles | The set of roles requested. |
| access_request.spec.suggested_reviewers | The set of reviewers specified in the request. |
| access_request.spec.system_annotations | A map of system annotations on the request. |
| access_request.spec.user | The requesting user. |
| access_request.spec.request_reason | The request reason. |
| access_request.spec.creation_time | The creation time of the request. |
| access_request.spec.expiry | The expiry time of the request. |

Predicate expressions used in the condition of Access Monitoring Rules must evaluate to
either true or false.

Some example values for the condition field and their possible uses.
- `access_request.spec.user == "some_user"` - Routing based on requesting user.

> - `access_request.spec.roles.contains("some_role")` - Routing based on the requested roles.

Reviewer 2: Is this correct?

I would expect it to be `contains(access_request.spec.roles, "some_role")`.

- `access_request.spec.roles.contains_any(set("role_1", "role_2"))` - Routing based on multiple roles.

## Step 2/2. Testing your new Access Monitoring Rule

In the above example rule for the Slack plugin.
- Replace the role "your_role_name" with a role of your choice.
- Replace "your_slack_channel" with a slack channel your plugin has access to.

> - Create the rule using `tctl create your_rule_files_path.yaml`

Reviewer 2: This doesn't belong here, the rule was already created in step 1.

Author: removed it

---
title: Routing Access Requests to Access Plugins
description: How to set up Teleport's Access Monitoring Rules
---

> With Teleport's Access Monitoring Rules access request notifications

Reviewer 3: We're standardizing the docs on capitalizing "Access Requests" (see the vale errors in this PR).

> can be routed to plugins based on based on several conditions.

Reviewer 3: I think it would be good to include one or two examples here. Also, when would a user want to use Access Monitoring Rules?

Currently only the Slack access plugin is supported.

## Prerequisites

> - A Teleport Enterprise Cloud account.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- A managed Teleport Enterprise account.
```
We're using "Teleport Enterprise" for both cloud and self-hosted accounts now, specifying whether it is managed outside the name of the product.

- The Enterprise `tctl` admin tool and `tsh` client tool version >= (=teleport.version=).

  You can verify the tools you have installed by running the following commands:

  ```code
  $ tctl version
  # Teleport Enterprise v(=teleport.version=) go(=teleport.golang=)
  
  $ tsh version
  # Teleport v(=teleport.version=) go(=teleport.golang=)
  ```

  You can download these tools by following the appropriate [Installation 
  instructions](../../installation.mdx#linux) for your environment and Teleport edition.

- At least of the Teleport Access Plugins that support using being set up.

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

> ## Step 1/2. Creating an Access Monitoring Rule.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Step 1/2. Create an Access Monitoring Rule
```
To follow docs conventions for headings in how-to guides

> 

Reviewer 3: I would introduce this example with text above the snippet, since otherwise it appears to arrive with no context.

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

kind: access_monitoring_rule
version: v1
metadata:
  name: your-plugin-name
spec:
  subjects: ['access_request']
  condition: 'access_request.spec.roles.contains("your_role_name")'
  notification:
    name: 'slack'
    recipients: ['your_slack_channel']
```

Above is an example of an Access Monitoring Rule that routes incoming access requests
that are requesting the role "your_role_name"to the slack channel "your_slack_channel".

The above example can be created using `tctl create  your-file-name.yaml`
from the command line.

Or via the webUI by navigating to the access request page and clicking on
`View Notification Routing Rules`.

Multiple recipients can be specified in an Access Monitoring Rule.
The condition field of the is set to a predicate expression defining the conditions
under which you wish the rule to apply.

> Fields of the access request that are currently supported are

Reviewer 3: I think the list of fields is a little difficult to read. We should use a table here.

- access_request.spec.system_annotations: A map of system annotations on the request.
- access_request.spec.user: The requesting user.
- access_request.spec.request_reason: The request reason.
- access_request.spec.creation_time: The creation time of the request.
- access_request.spec.expiry: The expiry time of the request.

Predicate expressions used in the condition of Access Monitoring Rules must evaluate to
either true or false.

Some example values for the condition field and their possible uses.
- `access_request.spec.user == "some_user"` - Routing based on requesting user.
- `access_request.spec.roles.contains("some_role")` - Routing based on the requested roles.
- `access_request.spec.roles.contains_any(set("role_1", "role_2")) - Routing based on multiple roles.

## Step 2/2. Testing your new Access Monitoring Rule.

In the above example rule for the Slack plugin.
- Replace the role "your_role_name" with a role of your choice.
- Replace "your_slack_channel" with a slack channel your plugin has access to.
- Create the rule using `tctl create your_rule_files_path.yaml`

Afterwards create an access request for the role you specified in the rule.

> (!docs/pages/includes/plugins/create-request.mdx!)

Reviewer 3: What should the user expect to see after creating the Access Request?

---
title: Routing Access Requests to Access Plugins
description: How to set up Teleport's Access Monitoring Rules
---

With Teleport's Access Monitoring Rules Access Request notifications
can be routed to plugins based on based on several conditions.
For example, if you wish to notify different recipients e.g Slack channels,
based on what roles or resources are being accessed, or based on what user
is making the request.

Currently only the Slack access plugin is supported.

## Prerequisites

- A managed Teleport Enterprise account.

- The Enterprise `tctl` admin tool and `tsh` client tool version >= (=teleport.version=).

  You can verify the tools you have installed by running the following commands:

  ```code
  $ tctl version
  # Teleport Enterprise v(=teleport.version=) go(=teleport.golang=)
  
  $ tsh version
  # Teleport v(=teleport.version=) go(=teleport.golang=)
  ```

  You can download these tools by following the appropriate [Installation 
  instructions](../../installation.mdx#linux) for your environment and Teleport edition.

- At least one of the Teleport Access Plugins that support using being set up.

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

> ## Step 1/2. Create an Access Monitoring Rule

Reviewer: Can you split this section into 2: creating via UI and creating via a YAML resource (UI or CLI). I would have a structure something like this:

```
## Step 1/2. Create an Access Monitoring Rule

You can define an access request notification rule in two ways: using a web UI dialog or by creating a YAML resource file containing the definition of a rule.

### Creating in web UI

// Here explain where to go in the UI, show screenshots.

### Creating using YAML resource

For more advanced scenarios, you can define a notification rule in raw YAML resource format, which can then be created by both web UI, or the CLI.

// Rest of your explanation below follows.
```

Later we can add Terraform and Kube Operator here as well.

> Here is an example Access Monitoring Rule. This rule will notify 'your_slack_channel'
> via the Slack plugin if an Access Request containing the role 'your_role_name' is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example Access Monitoring Rule. This rule will notify `your_slack_channel`
via the Slack plugin if an Access Request containing the role `your_role_name` is
```

made.

```yaml
kind: access_monitoring_rule
version: v1
metadata:
  name: your-plugin-name
spec:
  subjects: ['access_request']
  condition: 'access_request.spec.roles.contains("your_role_name")'
  notification:
    name: 'slack'
    recipients: ['your_slack_channel']
```

Above is an example of an Access Monitoring Rule that routes incoming Access Requests

> that are requesting the role "your_role_name"to the slack channel "your_slack_channel".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that are requesting the role `your_role_name` to the slack channel `your_slack_channel`.
```

> The above example can be created using `tctl create  your-file-name.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above example can be created using `tctl create your-file-name.yaml`
```

> The above example can be created using `tctl create  your-file-name.yaml`
> from the command line.
> 
> Or via the webUI by navigating to the Access Request page and clicking on
> `View Notification Routing Rules`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above routing rule can be created using `tctl create your-file-name.yaml`
from the command line, or via the webUI by navigating to the Access Request page and clicking on
`View Notification Routing Rules`.
```

Multiple recipients can be specified in an Access Monitoring Rule.

> The condition field of the is set to a predicate expression defining the conditions

Reviewer: Should we also add a link to [predicate language](https://goteleport.com/docs/reference/predicate-language/) here?
```suggestion
The condition field of the rule is set to a predicate expression defining the conditions
```

under which you wish the rule to apply.

Fields of the Access Request that are currently supported are
| Field | Description |
| --- | --- |
| access_request.spec.roles | The set of roles requested. |
| access_request.spec.suggested_reviewers | The set of reviewers specified in the request. |
| access_request.spec.system_annotations | A map of system annotations on the request. |
| access_request.spec.user | The requesting user. |
| access_request.spec.request_reason | The request reason. |
| access_request.spec.creation_time | The creation time of the request. |
| access_request.spec.expiry | The expiry time of the request. |

Predicate expressions used in the condition of Access Monitoring Rules must evaluate to
either true or false.

Some example values for the condition field and their possible uses.
- `access_request.spec.user == "some_user"` - Routing based on requesting user.
- `access_request.spec.roles.contains("some_role")` - Routing based on the requested roles.

> - `access_request.spec.roles.contains_any(set("role_1", "role_2")) - Routing based on multiple roles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `access_request.spec.roles.contains_any(set("role_1", "role_2"))` - Routing based on multiple roles.
```

> ## Step 2/2. Testing your new Access Monitoring Rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 2/2. Testing your new Access Monitoring Rule
```
